---
description: Demoman, Heavy, & Engineer in full detail.
---

# Defensive Class Discussion

## Demoman

Demoman is great in his ability to stall and stun groups of zombies if dealt enough damage. This is his primary function and can work to great extents during the beginning of rounds by being able to infuriatingly stall the starting zombies and later in rounds when you need to stun groups of zombies to lessen the pressure. Recall that zombies will become immune to stuns for a few seconds after any initial stuns, so you can't stack nor stunlock. Even so, this won't take away from the strength of the AoE slow making it a real nuisance. Due to how slows do not stack and zombies recieve a 3 second immunity to stuns after being stunned, there really shouldn't be more than 2 or 3 Demos.

The tradeoff for being one of the best classes for these mechanics is how lackluster Demo is at pretty much everything else. Asides from holds and defenses, a big factor prevalent in most maps are NPCs and bosses. Demo <mark style="color:red;">**has the one of the worst damage output**</mark> towards them due to his unreliable projectiles. Even when fighting against a static, giant boss, your damage is quite poor. As such, moments where there are only a few humans left and final bosses to defeat makes Demo near useless. This means he's great for early play, but if the team is struggling and there are things you essentially need to kill or damage to progress, he won't be able to clutch it.

Not only does he have low damage potential, he's the **slowest class** in ZE! The only thing to remedy this are shields to charge for a burst of speed or the Pain Train that needs to be held out to benefit from it. All other melees are niche and have already been discussed. If you're going Demoknight, there'll be _extremely rare_ occasions where it's actually viable.

If you want to play stuns a bit smarter, you need to establish a priority list. Since it'll take some time to reload stickies and due to the whole stun immunity thing, you'll need to time your detonations well too. Stuns are great for shutting down Mutations most notably for Heavies and Pyros. If you time it right, you can det as soon as you see the particle effects for the two to prevent them from causing havoc towards the team. This is especially important with smarter zombie players who know how effective these Mutations can be. Aside from this, you can really just spam your stickies for the AoE slow and occasionally det if your team is well prepared for it or if you really have no other options to hold them back.

## Heavy

The Heavy is by far one of the best if not, <mark style="color:blue;">**the best asset to the team**</mark> offering both survivability, great defensive potential, and great damage potential. It's a shame though that people regard it as boring and too simple to play, thus shying away from it. It's an important class - one that you'll occasionally hear VC leads spam chat for people to play.

Well, what makes him so good? His arsenal of tools and their variable benefits have already been shown. Miniguns in general are ridiculous in their ability to stop zombies due to their high fire rate and high damage. A wall of Heavies could stop most anything. Mutation spam? They've got the HP to tank it and even weapons to heal from it in the form of lunchable items or the Warrior's Spirit. Rather than stopping anything, they can trample most things too. That high DPS translates to quicker boss fights, which share the overall benefit of potentially less teammate deaths and faster events for maps tight on timers.

Surely there's a downside though, right? Heavy is slow as he's also one of the slowest classes in ZE. However, due to many mobility options being taken away from the other classes like double jumping and rocket jumping and everyone's speed being reduced while Heavy actually increases in speed, his speed is not _that much_ of a downside here. Revving miniguns in itself can be dangerous as it's a few seconds in which you're stuck idle and susceptible to zombies ganging up on you. The way to mitigate this would be to use shotguns. They'll allow you to run and occasionally shoot behind yourself for spacing or even help with shooting bosses that you need to run around or from. There really is a lot at the Heavy's disposal, so it'd be wise to try playing it if you want to make things easier on yourself and the team.

Playing Heavy is extremely simple in nature and generally the best class for new players to start out as. As a slow class but being the best human defenders, remember that you should be defending when it's safe and you're not doorhugging! When defending, try to shoot at the closest zombies around you and if stalling, shoot at as many zombies you can to maximize the amount of zombies slowed from your bullets. If you're dangerously close to the zombies, just be mindful of any Spies or Heavies as they can easily catch you off guard with their enzymes. If you're forced to fall back, it's usually recommended to fall back early due to his slow movespeed as your teammates will typically cover your retreat. When falling back, be sure to use your shotgun and shoot behind you or use the GRU **or** the Eviction Notice to quickly escape! Just be mindful that some zombies can catch up to you even when using either, but the Eviction Notice will allow for you to shotgun cover effectively. Heavy is not only easy to pick up and play but your team will greatly appreciate you for playing Heavy!

## Engineer

Engineers <mark style="color:blue;">**are always great to have around,**</mark> _assuming they have places to build._ It's already been discussed how much of a team utility he is by providing dispensers for ammo and health or sentries for additional defense. They're also **great defenders** utilizing their Frontier Justice or Pistol while their sentries knockback zombies, and have a **high end damage output** vs both NPCs and Bosses. As such, they're one of the better classes to stack assuming Heavies are already maxed out. To add onto this, it might be helpful to think about how to play it smarter than simply slapping down buildings for your teammates to cuddle on.

The first out-of-the-box way people may use Dispensers and Mini-sentries are as _blockades_ - the latter with a Wrangler shield to tank more hits. Buildings are somewhat small, so the only place they can really block the width of are small hallways or doors. Even then, they don't have that much health so it'll require a bit of maintenance to keep them up. Regardless, they are effective at deterring hordes of zombies while up and can even halt Heavy's using their Mutation to try and run to you. More unconventionally, you can use them as blockades for yourself. If arenas allow it, you could sandwich yourself between a dispenser and sentry to negate all pushes and pulls during a boss fight.

If that's not cheesy enough, we can refer back to the more conventional "dispenser cuddle" strat where the entire team hugs a dispenser to outheal boss attacks. **This may or may not work on maps as, nowadays, maps are being adjusted to severely nerf this.** But, if this upsets you, then just destroy your buildings! Over and over. Those familiar with TF2 already know that buildings can generate ammo when destroyed. That means you can spam build and destroy your stuff in the event that ammo is in dire need. You'll want to do this if the team needs to constantly fall back and can't just stay by your dispenser. This is especially useful with friendly Pyros as they'll be able to constantly airblast and slow the zombies down without running out of ammo!

Finally, to further embrace how much of a blessing or curse Engineer can be, recall the items at your disposal. Aside from the Wrangler, he's got a Short Circuit you can spam relatively fast to cause a moving AoE slow against hordes of zombies. You can be even more annoying by placing Mini-sentries during parkour holds to aimbot at zombies trying to jump. While that's up, feel free to deal additional pain by shooting at them with shotguns or by shooting at bosses while they're preoccupied.
