---
description: Medic, Sniper, & Spy in full detail.
---

# Support Class Discussion

## Medic

Medic is one of the premier ways of healing your team against zombie Mutations, NPCs, and bosses and preventing your team from dying in the first place with his overheals! Even as a defender, he's one of the best due to the knockback syringe guns inflict. Adding to this, syringe guns are not hitscan, meaning they shoot out large volleys of projectiles in a relatively short amount of time, allowing you to shoot for a second and delay a few seconds more. Just be careful where you shoot them. Additionally, this'll make it harder to shoot bosses down, but at least they do a decent amount of damage. They're another one of the best classes to stack assuming Heavy is already maxed out.

The true power of healing varies from map to map, but in general, think of it as a counterplay to mutations that gradually erode the team's health. The Medic has access to a variety of ways to fulfill this purpose. Already discussed are the mediguns that provide amazing single-target healing. Their respective abilities all serve to help bolster defenses or increase the survivability of the team. Remember the zombies typically inflict 208 damage per hit. When a survivor is overhealed past that amount, they can typically survive a hit from a zombie as a result! This makes Medic fantastic for saving his team especially against Heavys using their mutation. The very fact that he is able to save a teammate, preventing one less zombie and saving one useful ally makes his overheal very potent. For his other healing capabilities, he can use the Amputator for AoE heals or even the Crusader's Crossbow for linear burst heals, or even douse zombies in mad milk with the Blutsauger. There's a lot to offer.

This strength can become notably absurd during few select boss fights or when fighting NPCs. However, do remember that most boss fights have healing <mark style="color:red;">**disabled**</mark> so if you notice you aren't able to heal your teammates, take out your syringe gun and start shooting. _**If**_ healing is <mark style="color:green;">**allowed**</mark> and un-nerfed during these segments, Medics can essentially negate most attacks, making fights much easier than intended.

There's a lot to think and worry about, so it might be best to just focus on what you're good at. Remember, you're a Medic! Your priority should be to make sure everyone is topped off on health so they don't die from a random mutation. If your team can properly hold an area, it is best to overheal the ones in the front, usually Pyros. This is so they don't die to a Heavy mutation as that's what usually causes humans to die during a static defense. If you're losing a defense, it might be best that you pull out your Syringe Gun and help defend! Medic, being one of the better defenders, can really be that difference between just defending against the horde or end up getting overwhelmed. Whether you should actually overheal your team or actually help defending will come down to the situation, decision making that will improve as you get more experience with the gamemode.

Medic can also save lives other than through healing damage that his teammates take. A well timed stock Medigun or Quick-Fix uber on a teammate about to get heal can easily save a out of position teammate. He can even aoe uber his team to save a bunch of people caught in a zombie TP! To do this, simply activate your Ubercharge, switch to the Amputator and use the AoE heal and then switch back to your medigun to give everyone around you Ubercharge! It can work on the Kritzkrieg to bolster your defense but it's buggy as it doesn't always work when it's done. Playing Medic well can be extremely rewarding as a well timed Uber, a preventive overheal or holding the line with your Syringe Gun can easily save lives and even win your team the game.

## Sniper

Sniper is known for his long ranged capability while having the highest DPS **against zombies** out of all the humans that isn't a risky backstab. He's also quite capable of stunning zombies that may easily kill your fellow humans, saving your teammate's life. He's also a somewhat decent defender thanks to the beefed up SMGs that he has access to. Although he isn't terribly useless, he is severely outclassed and his niche is fairly useless due to the extremely high hp the zombies possess while most maps are short ranged in nature.\
\
As a Sniper, your main priority should be focusing on high priority targets such as Heavies, zombies with low hp and zombies with items. Correct timing on Heavies using their enzymes could easily stun a Heavy at a critical moment when a human could have easily died. With enough headshots, you'll be able to kill an zombie with an important item and prevent them from being used against the humans. When your team requires some close ranged defense, utilize your SMG or Cleaner's Carbine to push back the zombies!\
\
The main issues with Sniper are the fact that Headshots don't accomplish the goal of actually killing zombies all that well - if you're using the stock rifle. Most zombies typically have about 20K hp at the start (some maps even set it to 50K), while your headshots do around 900-1200 damage at that point. It would take nearly 20 uninterrupted headshot on one. When your headshots start doing around 3000 damage and zombies health is around 8000 where they would die in 3 shots thanks to most of the humans dying, you're forgetting that you're spending your time lining up 3 headshots to kill one singular zombie among a horde of 20. You should be using your secondary to help defend against them. But at that point, shouldn't have been a completely different class who defends a lot better? Even against item users where a Spy could easily die trying to backstab them, they'll typically be well aware of a Sniper trying to focus fire them with headshots and get out of your line of sight before waiting for their item to recharge to strike. All of Sniper's negative traits don't even take inconsideration of how difficult it is to hit headshots on constantly moving zombies that get knocked back a ton.

## Spy

_Spy isn't somebody you should pick most of the time. He is, however, the premier class to deal with NPCs and Bosses._

\
Although he may not have the highest DPS compared to the Heavy, Spy's ability to stay alive and fast movespeed greatly makes up for that. He's also the class for killing zombies. Doing so is a high risk, low reward type of playstyle that may or may not be beneficial to the team. This statement does introduce the uncertainty and doubt in his benefit and there's good reason for that. The reality one needs to be accustomed to with this class is that there will be situations where zombies will obliviously let you kill them or situations where they have the smarts enough to actually turn around. When they do, it'll take just one shot for them to kill you unless you have a Dead Ringer ready. Assuming you're going for a backstab kill, it won't be out and you'll be dead on the spot. Although actually killing zombies is the best defense one could do, the inconsistency, the high risk and positioning and skill required of backstabbing zombies enough to actually make his use worthwhile makes usually picking an actual defending class who is far more consistent and effective at defending the better choice. Remember, _most_ his revolvers are some of the worst guns to actually defend with!\
\
So, what are you as a Spy really good for then? It's been mentioned earlier, but his main purpose is getting triggers while dealing with problematic NPCs and Bosses. The Revolver's high DPS, Spy's high speed and his incredible ability to survive thanks to his disguise kit and Dead Ringer makes him one of the best doorhuggers. Compared to Scout however, he is a far worse defender and can't reach up to very high speed the Scout can with his BFB. **He's also very selfish in the sense that he has no way of actually helping out his team** like the Scout can with his Bonk! Atomic Punch or Mad Milk. Despite this, he's simply the best class to potentially clutch a win at the most dire of situations!\
\
If not doorhugging, you could play a very risky playstyle of actually backstabbing zombies. Encroaching zombies that will eventually overwhelm the team can be reset back to tp positions when you kill them making chain stabs a powerful mechanic for saving the team. Killing zombies with important items and are low enough to be killed or zombies proccing their Mutations can help save teammates about to be killed themselves. As long as zombies aren't on high alert for you, you can expect to get a few kills in and use the kill-boosts or Dead Ringer to run back to safety.\
\
Speaking about the Dead Ringer, it really can be absurdly powerful. It's a safety net not only for killing zombies but also for diving into the zombie backlines to retrieve items or for damage-boosting to fast trigger. It's also very powerful at mitigating a lot of NPC and Boss attacks, making you very survivable when encountering them. The Invis Watch may let you simply sneak in unnoticed in most cases, but it gets overshadowed in utility by the DR very quickly. Other utilities the Spy can consider are the Red-Tape Recorder and the Sapper, but the former is really the only one you should use for its HP regen when held out.\
\
So how do you play Spy? The most optimal way of actually playing Spy is to play him the same way as a doorhugging Scout. Get triggers, grab items for your defenders, deal with NPCs/Bosses with your high DPS revolver and clutch out the win if it comes down to it. Backstabs are very inconsistent and risky so you shouldn't actively go for them unless the opportunity arises. Even if you do get the kill, is that kill really worth risking your life over when a similar, better defending class could have prevented that zombie from killing a teammate? You should really only actively try to go for backstabs if your team has their backs against the wall and a chain stab is the only way your team can avoid losing. Of course if you do enjoy going for backstabs, don't let us dissuade you; just note that you're putting yourself at risk for a low payoff and maybe being called dumb by people in-game.

