---
description: Scout, Soldier, & Pyro in full detail.
---

# Offense Class Discussion

## Scout

_Typically_ picked by useless doorhugging players who do nothing for their team, Scout can be great for extremely fast triggers, dealing with NPCs and having good boss damage while potentially soloing due to his increased survivability compared to other classes. His main niche is how fast he can get with the **BFB**, something that none of the other classes are able to do. Since his main niche is to get fast triggers with his insane speed, there typically shouldn't be more than 1 or 2 Scouts. However, people will typically stack this class and not even trigger so don't feel too bad about picking it when there's other scouts. His other main niche is that he can also be picked when the map calls for high damage classes who like to be on the move very similar to the Spy.

Spy and Scout fulfill similar roles when played optimally as they're both high DPS doorhuggers so it's really your preference and what the map entails. The advantages that Scout has over the Spy are that he's more of a team player with his secondaries as items like Bonk! help your team fallback and Mad Milk even saving a run when all your <mark style="color:green;">**healing**</mark> sources end up dying. His **Force-A-Nature** also being a much better tool at defending than the Spy's Revolver. The disadvantages that Scout has over the Spy are how he's a lot less survivable than Spy who has the Dead Ringer and Disguise Kit, being able to go behind the back lines to retrieve lost items or potentially survive for a solo clutch, something the Scout only has with his bonk.

Playing Scout is relatively simple. If you're someone getting all the triggers, you might as well continue to doorhug unless the team simply need that little bit of defensive power from you to defend. While doorhugging to activate the triggers, be sure to kill any NPCs that you might face while also grabbing the proper items for your defenders. If someone is already doorhugging, support your team with the speedboost from bonk or the heal on hit from Mad Milk. When it comes down to the last humans and you're forced with difficult lasers or a difficult boss, you're one of the best classes to clutch out a win for the humans!

## Soldier

While his Conch boost can be very impactful and even gamesaving, Soldier is....often _<mark style="color:red;">**detrimental**</mark>_ to the team. This is even compounded by the fact that Soldier is the default class loading in causing many new players to unintentionally [**boost**](../../../general-overview/terminology-and-slang.md) with him! While he has a small niche **countering Heavy Mutations with a direct hit from the Liberty Launcher**, everything else that the Soldier has in his arsenal besides the Concheror is outclassed. Due to the powerful effects of the Concheror but Soldier's very unreliable and potentially harmful defending capabilities, there really shouldn't be more than 2 Soldiers.\
\
Many of Soldier's items are outclassed or very situational except when it comes to the Concheror. The Buff Banner is not needed as it's typically better to be a proper defending class if you know you're gonna be one of the few surviving humans while it's not needed if your team can hold a defense already. The Battalion's Backup is mostly outclassed by the Medic's ability to heal and overheal and the fact that it doesn't even work sometimes but can excel at reducing damage from bosses if healing is disabled. His explosive AoE slow from his primaries is greatly outshined by Demo's non-boosting, stunning stickies. The Concheror, however, is one of the **greatest** supporting buffs in the game, being able to fallback much easier while preventing your Pyros from dying to Heavy Mutations as well as replacing all healing needs for your defenders.\
\
Playing Soldier well requires a good understanding of timing, great situational awareness and proper aiming. You typically want to use your Concheror when the team is falling back and make sure that everyone is in the AoE when falling back. If your team is low on healing or your team is defending for awhile, it's perfectly fine to use your Concheror so they can defend a lot better. Just be sure you have it ready when falling back as charging your banners can take quite a bit even against a horde of zombies! When actually defending, be sure to shoot directly as a zombie rather than at their feet! If they jump at the right time, they can easily get boosted towards you and your team! While Soldier is unfriendly to new players and can outright be a detriment as a result, playing him properly can be extremely beneficial as long as you don't stack too many of him!

## Pyro

A strong class that can single handedly win the game for the humans, Pyro is an very powerful class when played in the right hands. His ability to stall and slow the zombies down notably with his flamethrower is nearly unmatched as so is his ability to knock zombies back with his airblast. Although Pyro is strong, unlike the Heavy, <mark style="color:red;">**more Pyros end up hurting each other**</mark> due to **airblast resistance** and the fact that the slow from the flames do not stack. Played properly, Pyro can easily single handedly carry his entire team to victory. As a result, there really shouldn't be more than 3 or 4 Pyros on a team as they'll hurt each other. It's especially bad if one of them keeps spamming airblast!

Other than the fact that stacking Pyros has diminishing returns, Pyro has pretty poor DPS when it comes to dealing with NPCs and Bosses. His close ranged playstyle also poses a high risk as unaware Pyros could easily die from a well timed enzyme.

Pyro can be a _very risky but also an extremely rewarding_ class to play. Being a risky close range class added by how zombie gain resistance to all airblasts, Pyro can be very daunting for new players. Being so close to the zombies, you have to be aware of the different types of mutations the zombies have. Heavies are your biggest threat, being able to easily ignore your flamethrower's slow and your team's knockback to close the distance and infect you when you least expect it. Also be mindful of Spies and the loud global decloak as they typically will try to target you first! Engineers can easily catch you off guard as their mutation is extremely effective against solo overdefenders, something you'll be doing a lot as a Pyro. Keep your ears open for Demoknight charges or Scouts popping their mutations as the sudden speed boost they get can catch you off guard on fallbacks.

Be mindful of your health especially against mass Pyro mutations combined with a Sniper's mutation due to how close you'll be to them as a Pyro. Even though you're unable to take afterburn, you can unexpectedly die from the mass explosions due to your close range nature. Other than that, be especially mindful of when to fallback so you don't get caught in a zombie TP from overdefending, something Pyro is the best at. Being at the front lines, cover your team as they fall back or just generally slow the zombies while defending. You'll want to inflict as many zombies as possible with your flames as they'll be slowed for a moment whenever they're damaged by your flames. Alternate some airblasts with your flames to maximize your stall and even use it at opportune moments to push zombies off an edge or TP! Remember that you have your Shotgun or Flare picks to help defend past your flamethrower range and quickly switch to your melee to kill Heavies using their enzymes as you'll typically be the class best suited to deal with them!
